He taught her that all dreams reach down to a common sea, and he showed her the way in which hers were different and the same. “You alone sail the old sea and the new,” he said. 
- William Gibson


“How did Fontaine
 get the apology?
He told a story
and then he said, 
come, follow me”. 
Wab Kinew


I'm very sad about your Auntie and those girls. And I’m also sad about the other white children I did no meet and could not save. When I think about it long and hard like today, I am even sorry for some of the white men. The anger of the Thunder on behalf of the people had been very great. But that’s only part of it. I have to be honest. It was our own anger too. When it went into motion that initial power was so strong there was no pulling it back. I’m not sorry the way things are now, but I wish things could have worked out some other way. I wish we could have come up with a better dance and better prayers.
- Richard Hill


We are what we imagine. Our very existence consists in our imagination of ourselves. Our best destiny is to imagine, at least, completely, who and what, and that we are. The greatest tragedy that can befall us is to go unimagined.
N. Scott Momaday


We should do this as a way of positioning ourselves in a genre associated almost exclusively with ‘the increasing significance of the future to Western techno-cultural consciousness’. ”
- Grace Dillon






So, Owisokon, at the very beginning…of the Skins process…she was asking these questions: what is this project, what are you going to do, what are you going to be teaching them? Finally, she says, ‘and what do yous want anyway? Why are yous doing this?’ And because it was Owisokon, who I have known for many years, I felt free enough to say, ‘well, we want to change the world.’  
- Skawennati Fragnito


It is not so odd, then, at this stage of late capitalism in the project called western culture, that cyberspace is "under construction”. It has in fact been under construction for at least the past two thousand years in Western cultures. 
Loretta Todd


All new technologies develop within the background of a tacit understanding of human nature and human work. The use of technology in turn leads to fundamental changes in what we do, and ultimately what it is to be human. We encounter the deep questions of design when we recognize that in designing tools we are designing ways of being.
- Terry Winograd and Fernando Flores


Computing technologies such as games, social networking sites, and virtual environments often reproduce forms of social stigma encountered in everyday real life, as well as introducing new forms of stigma. When users represent themselves via avatars, characters, and profiles, norms for behavior and group affiliations are established that may introduce prejudices, stereotypes, and associated social ills found in the real world.
- D. Fox Harrel

“What inspired me to base the [Skins workshop] game on the stories of the Flying Head is…that I didn’t really see any games out there that had our culture in it.”
	  Tehoniehtáthe Delisle 


"Maybe you can run that one by me again," Bobby said, around a mouthful of rice and eggs "I thought you already said it's not a religion."

Beauvoir removed his eyeglass frames and sighted down one of the earpieces. "That wasn't what I said. I said you didn't have to worry about it, is all, whether it's a religion or not. It's just a structure. Lets you an' me discuss some things that are happening, otherwise we might not have words for it, concepts… If you want, we’re concerned with systems.” 
William Gibson


In Cree Language, Nehiyawewin, metaphor and metonymy are not simply pointers to similarity. They describe the threshold of transformation and shifting states of being…In Cree culture, language and any creative act of communication are reflections of our awareness that, despite its depth, we have a meagre, perhaps minuscule and certainly contingent understanding of the complex net of forces and beings that surround, shape and extend beyond human knowing.
- Ahasiw Maskegon-Iskwew

“[i]t would have been interesting had Jenny been able to see, today, what satellite communications have done for the world, and how things have changed since the Internet was introduced. I am not certain that this would have intrigued her - it might simply have been interpreted as a tool for aiding travel in unknown environments.”
- Louise Profeit-Leblanc


“A little visiting with my ancestors, a little recon with my role models...”
	     -   Hunter

My gifts are meagre and stingy little things…
- Ahasiw Maskegon-Iskwew


The best way to predict the future is to invent it. 
Alan C. Kay














