[Russian ties] "Democrats can't impeach a Republican President for crimes committed by Democrats."
[United Kingdom] "I never called Meghan Markle 'nasty.' Made up by the Fake News Media, and they got caught cold! Will @CNN, @nytimes and others apologize? Doubt it!"
[Immigration] "The Wall is under construction and moving along quickly, despite all of the Radical Liberal Democrat lawsuits."
[Mexico] "We have a 100 Billion Dollar Trade Deficit with Mexico. It's time!"
[Democrats] "Hard to believe that with the Crisis on the Border, the Dems won't do the quick and easy fix. Would solve the problem but they want Open Borders, which equals crime!"
[Robert Mueller] "The Greatest Presidential Harassment in history. After spending $40,000,000 over two dark years, with unlimited access, people, resources and cooperation, highly conflicted Robert Mueller would have brought charges, if he had ANYTHING, but there were no charges to bring!"
[Military] "I disagree with John McCain on the way he handled the vets, because I said you got get to Choice. He was never able to get Choice. I got Choice."
[Barack Obama] "Well, I think I've been much tougher on elections than President Obama. President Obama was told, in 2016, just before the election in September, that Russia may try and interfere with the election. He did nothing. And the reason he did nothing is he thought Hillary was going to win."
[China] "China would love to make a deal with us. We had a deal, and they broke the deal. I think, if they had to do again, they wouldn't have done what they did. We're taking in billions of dollars in tariffs. China is subsidizing products. So the United States taxpayer is paying for very little of it."
[Iran] "We're not looking for regime change. I just want to make that clear. We're looking for no nuclear weapons. If you look at the (Iran) deal that Biden and President Obama signed, they would have access -- free access -- to nuclear weapons, where they wouldn't even be in violation, in just a very short period of time."
[North Korea] Question: "And, Mr. President, a follow-up on North Korea. You tweeted about North Korea yesterday. Do you believe that they violated U.N. resolutions with the short-range missile launch? And does it give you pause at all to be appearing to side with a brutal dictator instead of with a fellow American -- the former Vice President Joe Biden?" Trump: "Well, Kim Jong Un made a statement that Joe Biden is a low-IQ individual. He probably is, based on his record. I think I agree with him on that. But, at the same time, my people think it could have been a violation, as you know. I view it differently. I view it as a man -- perhaps he wants to get attention, and perhaps not. Who knows? It doesn't matter. All I know is that there have been no nuclear tests. There have been no ballistic missiles going out. There have been no long-range missiles going out. And I think that someday we'll have a deal. I'm not in a rush. Tremendous sanctions being put on the country of North Korea."
[NAFTA] "We have a USMCA. We have a deal with Canada and Mexico that everybody wants, I think. It's all done. And I think they probably want to be doing that. As you know, Ambassador Lighthizer is here, right now. That's a deal that's gotten universal praise. Unions love it. Farmers love it. Manufacturers love it."
[Environment] "And we really have made it much easier. We've gotten rid of a lot of the red tape. As an example, if you look at the various types of plants, nobody was getting them approved. Nobody was getting them out of the EPA. You couldn't get refineries done. You couldn't get anything."
[Pipelines] "Many, many, pipelines got approved that were stuck. They were absolutely stuck. You know the Keystone XL Pipeline -- the big one -- I did that in my first week in office. Forty-eight thousand jobs. And that's now under construction."
[Energy] "The United States, as you know, has become the number one country in the world, during my administration -- two and a half years -- in energy. So we're now number one in the world."
[Taxes] "We slashed our corporate tax rate from the highest in the developed world to one of the lowest in the developed world. We took it down -- I mean, some people could say we're at 41, 42 per cent -- different places, different areas. But we took it down from probably, on average, 41, 42 per cent -- depending on what state you're talking about; sometimes much higher than that -- to 21 per cent."
[Economy] "Manufacturing and small business optimism have set all-time records, and consumer confidence has just surged to a 21-year high."
[Japan] "Just last week, U.S. beef exports gained full access to Japan and to the markets in Japan for the first time since the year 2000."
[Polls] "My poll numbers are very good. You don't like to report them, but my polls -- I guess we have a 48 today. We have a 51. We have very good poll numbers, considering. Now, I have to tell you, if you people would give straight news, I'd be at 70. I'd be maybe at 75. But you don't give straight news; you give fake news."
[Hillary Clinton] "I won an election. I won it easily -- 306 to 223. I won it pretty easily."
[Drugs] "I'd like to talk about lowering drug prices, which I've done better than any president ever. We had a year -- this year, as you know, drug prices went down, first time in 51 years." And: "The one thing I'm very proud of also, on drug prices -- I brought it down; first time in 51 years that drug prices went down."
[Media] "Wow! CNN Ratings are WAY DOWN, record lows. People are getting tired of so many Fake Stories and Anti-Trump lies."
[US intelligence] "These are bad people. You know, a lot of people say 'deep state.' I don't say 'deep state.' We have a lot of bad people and I think they're being found out."
[Farmers] "We're taking swift action to remedy all of the injustice that's been done over the years -- in particular, you could say with our farmers. They're patriots. They stood up and they were with me. They didn't say, 'Oh, you shouldn't do this because we're going to have a bad year.' Because they've had 20 bad years, if you really look. You take a look at those charts way back -- longer than that. It's just been a steady spiral down. So we will ensure that our farmers get the relief they need and very, very quickly." And: ""And again, if you look -- go back 20 years, the farms have come down; the prices have been coming down for many, many years -- long before I ever thought about doing this. So we're going to be very successful."
[Drug prices] "Drug prices are coming down -- first time in 51 years -- because of my administration."
[Congressional races] "Even last night, we had a great election. I went there on Monday. We had a -- an election for Fred Keller. It was a 50/50 shot, and he won in a landslide. We went and we did a rally. Hardly mentioned today. And yet, if he lost, it would have been the biggest story in the country -- even bigger than this witch hunt stuff that you guys keep writing about."
[Trump White House] "And instead of walking in happily into a meeting, I walk in to look at people that had just said that I was doing a cover-up. I don't do cover-ups. You people know that probably better than anybody."
[Health care] "Well, always, we are going to have pre-existing conditions to be taken care of."
[Paris climate accord] "I withdrew the United States -- I thought I'd be hit hard on this one, and I wasn't ; just ask, how are they doing in Paris? -- from the past administration's job-killing Paris Climate Accord, which would have cost a fortune and would have hurt our country horribly. We will never allow foreign bureaucrats and countries to trample on our sovereignty or to shut down our jobs, which is what that would have done."
[Time] "You take a look at what we've done between regulations and taxes, and I mean think of it, Right To Try. You know what Right To Try is? I won't go into it, you don't want to be there, but now we can give them the benefit of the great research we have the best in the world and there's a lot of great things happening. I signed it eight months ago, a lot of great things happening with Right To Try."
[Trade] "You look at what these countries have made. We lost on just trade, $800 billion on average for many years, $800 billion, not million, eight hundred million's a lot. Eight hundred billion is not even conceivable, and we didn't do anything about it, and I mean, not only President Obama, I mean others too."
[Joe Biden] "It's no wonder that when Joe Biden announced he's running for president. By the way, by the way, by the way we have thousands of people so -- and this is it, I'm not even announcing today, we'll wait for a couple of weeks, OK? This is just, we go in for Fred (Keller), look at the thousands and thousands of people we have. Now, they said he had 600 people, no, not very good, not very good. I'd say 150, and that was an announcement, right? I'd, say 150 people, but he announced he's running for president."
[Jobs] "The United States added 263,000 jobs just last month, far exceeding any expectations. And since the election, we've created nearly 6 million new jobs...but that includes a half a million brand new manufacturing jobs, which the previous administration said will never happen, will never happen, and it wouldn't have happened if you had them or the like."
[Puerto Rico] "So, I've given more money to Puerto Rico than, I believe, any president ever. They've gotten $91 billion for the hurricane."
[Possible 2020 Democratic candidates] "Look at Joe Biden...Biden, he calls them and says, 'Don't you dare persecute, if you don't fire this prosecutor' -- the prosecutor was after his son. Then he said, 'If you fire the prosecutor, you'll be OK. And if you don't fire the prosecutor, we're not giving you $2 billion in loan guarantees,' or whatever he was supposed to give."
[NATO] "But I think maybe the strongest -- look, NATO is ripping us off. I got the NATO countries, we're defending them, to put up $100 billion more, and the secretary of -- general of NATO, Stoltenberg -- great guy. He's my biggest fan, because NATO is going down like this, it was going down, the funding. And now it went down -- as soon as I got in, I raised $100 billion from NATO countries."
[Middle East] "...The deal that President Obama made was a horror show, the Iran Nuclear Deal...So he made this terrible deal, paid $150 billion..."
[Green New Deal] "And they have a hundred-trillion-dollar Green New Deal. Nobody has any idea what the hell it is. They know that you can't take a plane anymore; you have to take a train to Hawaii. Train. A train to Australia and a train -- hey, if they can't build from San Francisco to Los Angeles -- what's going to happen when they say, 'Let's build a train to Europe'? 'Let's build one up to Europe. We'll do a fast train.' A hundred miles an hour. Let's see. Well, a plane goes six, so you got a long trip on a train, I'll tell you. This is crazy. This is crazy."
[Exaggeration] "That (the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau) was her (Elizabeth Warren's) baby. And she had the man that was in charge of that running in the great state of Ohio. But Mike (DeWine) did a good job, and I did good job. We fought, and your current governor came from behind and he was down by six or seven points with a couple of days left. We went out, we made a rally like you wouldn't believe, in the great state of Ohio. And he ended up winning by six or seven points. And that was a great day for Ohio. We love Ohio. That was a great day."
[Infrastructure] "I've directed federal agencies to drastically accelerate the approval process for new roads and bridges so that our families can get where they want to go, safely -- and our economy can keep running full speed ahead. I mean, highways that were taking 21 years to get an approval. There's a highway in a state not so far away -- took 20 years to get it approved. And they had an opening, fairly recently -- not a big road -- it's, sort of, not even a highway. It's less than a highway. But by the time it ended up, it was 20 years late. They spent tens of million dollars on environmental impact statements. The road was a dead-straight road -- the first road, dead straight -- so that, if you had a rough night, you can go straight. Now it's a road that goes this way -- because of nesting -- different things. Nesting. Who the hell knows what's nesting? But whatever it is. So the road ends up being twice as long and curving like hell. And unless you're 100 per cent sharp, you're in deep trouble. They got these barriers, right? You know, the barriers? These -- bwah, wah. So my father and I would have built that thing for nothing. For nothing. And it cost, I mean, hundreds of millions of dollars and just years. And you look at the environmental impact statements. I actually brought one to one speech. I brought one. And it was -- literally, it was this high, and there were like three other sections. It was just -- just nonsense, okay? Just total nonsense. So we're stopping that. We're trying to get it down. It takes 17, 18 years to get a highway approved. We're trying to get it down to one. We have it down to two. We think we can get it down to one. And we're getting rid of the quadruples. You know, you have many quadruples."
[European Union] "So we protect them (Europe). We spend hundreds of billions of dollars protecting them. And then they take advantage of us on trade. It's not -- it's not fair. We lost $180 billion with the European Union."
[California] "They were going to show me -- the (California) governor -- a nice guy. A nice, young guy. Talking about forests -- clean up your forests; you won't have forest fires. Clean them up. He blames it on global warming. I said, 'No, try cleaning the floor of the forest a little bit so you don't have four feet of leaves and broken trees that have sit there for 25 years. Try cleaning the floor of the forest. You won't have forest fires.' And I got killed for that. It's called 'forest management.'I got killed for that. And then, about three weeks later, they announced I was right. Because I was out there last year and what I saw was so horrific with some of the fires -- so many people killed. The fire was -- you talk about bullets, the fire was like a bullet."
[Crime] "Last year, in Philadelphia, a robber shot and gravely injured a deli owner. He was a good man. He'll never be the same. But he may serve -- this criminal -- a sentence that is very short. In fact, they're looking at about three years, if you can believe this. Three years. Dangerous criminals must be punished to the fullest extent of the law."
[Terrorism] "They have great respect for law enforcement and the job you do. As we memorialize those officers who fell in the line of duty, we also grieve for the 87 officers who died in recent years as a result of exposure to toxic debris following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001."
[Election] "On your campaign, sir: Will you commit to not using any information stolen from a foreign adversary? Will you make that commitment? Trump: Well, I never did use, as you probably know. That's what the Mueller report was all about. They said, 'No collusion.' And I would certainly agree to that; I don't need it."
[Impeachment] "So, you know, it's all based on high crimes and misdemeanors. And if you look at the Mueller report, there was no collusion. There was no conspiracy. And there was no obstruction. He said that in the first half of the sentence, and then said he couldn't prove it. But there was no obstruction. And then the attorney general, based on the facts, and the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, they ruled there was no obstruction. So you have no crime. And impeachment's based on crime. And, specifically it's based on high crimes and misdemeanors. Not 'plus' or whatever -- it's 'and' misdemeanors. Not separately, but together. So you need both."
[South Korea] "They could very easily -- I told the story last night: I picked up $500 million with one phone call to a country. And that's just the beginning. And I've done it with many other countries. Anyway, but just over the last very short period of time -- one phone call that lasted for a period of, I would say, five minutes, I picked up $500 million because I said, "You're not taking care of us. We're taking care of you, but you're not taking care. It's not fair.'"
[Crowds] "That's what people want to know. And I won't tell you, I had an event last night; a lot of you were there. Thousands and thousands of people standing in a field. They've never seen anything like it -- meaning, even the press. But it's always that way. We've never had an empty seat."
[James Comey] "And Bob Mueller is no friend of mine. I had conflicts with him. We had a business dispute. We had somebody that is in love with James Comey. He liked James Comey. They were very good friends; supposedly, best friends. Maybe not, but supposedly, best friends. You look at the picture file and you see hundreds of pictures of him and Comey."
[Tariffs] "But a large group delegation, headed by one of the most respected men and highest officials of China, will be coming in today. They start at 5 o'clock. And they'll see what they can do. But our alternative is an excellent one. It's an alternative I've spoken about for years. We'll take in well over $100 billion a year. We never took in 10 cents from China. Not 10 cents."
[Abortion] "And then you have this governor in Virginia, you saw that. The baby is born and you wrap the baby beautifully and you talk to the mother about the possible execution of the baby."
[Saudi Arabia] "We have countries like Saudi Arabia, very rich, nothing but cash, right. So I think they can afford to pay us, right, for defense, and they will, and you know what, they will. And they're buying a tremendous amount of equipment, $450 billion they'll be spending in our country. Four hundred and fifty billion."
[Venezuela] "Right now, people are starving (in Venezuela). They have no water, they have no food. This is, Mr. Prime Minister, one of the richest countries in the world 20 years ago, and now it's -- they don't have food and they don't have water for their people. So we want to help on a humanitarian basis. And I thought it was a very positive conversation I had with President Putin on Venezuela."
[Opioid epidemic] "And I will say our first lady has taken to this. It's incredible what she has done. And we're down 16 per cent with opioids. Sixteen per cent is a lot."
[Religion] "Now for the first time, faith-based organizations can serve federal prisoners. They can take care of the people in and they can take care of prisoners as they get out."
[Israel] "I recognized Israel's capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and it would have opened in 25 years. What I said to our great ambassador, David Friedman, one of the most successful lawyers in New York, who became ambassador to Israel. I said, 'David, they want to spend $1.1 billion, we could do it cheaper.' They want to buy this piece of land in Jerusalem, top dollar. I said, 'David, what can we do?' And he called me back, he said, 'Sir, we have a piece of land that's much better, and on that piece of land, we have an old building. We're not using the building very much and we can renovate the building for $400,000 and we'll have a beautiful embassy and a better location, and we can have it done and so we can have it done in four months instead of 25 years.' So here's your alternative, a building at a great location in four months for $400,000 or a building that will probably never get built, but let's say 20 years. For $1.1 billion today, meaning $3, $4 billion in a lousy location. That won't be as good as what we built and it's the first time I've had ever done this. He said four hundred thousand. I said, 'David, it's too cheap.' We have to make it. It's true. I said, 'Make it $500,000.' It's true. It's True. And it's open. We opened it like almost a year ago. And you know in New York I have a friend who's a very successful guy. He's very proud of his office because he used to think, oh, Jerusalem stone. This is stone from Jerusalem, it's one of the most expensive. He considers it a treasure. And every time I go in he says, oh, look at my beautiful stone, it's from Jerusalem. So we're building a building in Jerusalem. I said, 'David, do me a favor, buy Jerusalem stone. You're right there.' We got it so cheap, you wouldn't believe it. And the whole damn building is made practically of Jerusalem stone. It's true. It's beautiful. So we got it open it for months instead of 20 or 25 years. And we saved at least $1.1 billion and it's a great embassy right now. It's a great, great thing. It's great."
[Guns] "Just yesterday, I announced that my administration is unsigning the U.N. Arms Trade Treaty. We're unsigning it, we're pulling it back out of the United Nations. We're pulling it back out of Congress. All of you Second Amendment people, you know you know what it is. You'll be very happy with it because we will never allow foreign bureaucrats to trample on America's freedom. We're not going to allow it. That was a President Obama disaster."
[India] "Look at Harley-Davidson. Look at Harley-Davidson. I met with them three years ago, one of my first meetings, Harley-Davidson. And I said to the people, they're very nice. They would tell me, tough to do business in certain countries -- 'How you're doing in India?' and they said, 'Oh, we don't do any business.' They weren't even complaining, because -- so many years. So India charged a 100 per cent tariff on a Harley-Davidson, but when they send their motorcycles, and they make 'em, us, we charge them nothing."
[Awards] "You remember that I used to do it when I was a civilian when I had no idea, I was going to be running for president, right? I had no idea. I used to say what the hell is going on in Michigan. They gave me an award six years, seven years ago. I had no idea. It was the man of the year in Michigan."
[Past presidents] "I really believe that it's been said, but make America Great Again. Ronald Reagan used, seldom, Let's Make America Great, close but not the same. Let's, apostrophe S, you don't want the apostrophe, it's too complicated, doesn't work. But Ronald Reagan was good. He said Let's Make, but he didn't use it and we use it a little bit. We seriously used it, right? MAGA."
[Social media] "'The best thing ever to happen to Twitter is Donald Trump.' @MariaBartiromo So true, but they don't treat me well as a Republican. Very discriminatory, hard for people to sign on. Constantly taking people off list."
[Steel] "All of them -- Nucor, U.S. Steel -- they're building many plants. They hadn't built a plant in 40 years."
[Courts] "And we've confirmed more than 100 new federal judges to interpret the Constitution as written."
[Midterm election] "We won in Georgia, great Governor Brian Kemp. They had President Obama, they had Oprah, they had Michelle Obama. They were going for their new star, their new star of the party, and I was going for Brian. All he had was Trump. You know what, Brian won."
[Republicans] "It's true. And just to finish up, and -- and this is so important, and -- and you know, I'm doing this almost as let's get together and talk because we have to win. We have to take back the House. We have to. There's no reason to have lost it. And what really lost it and really helped us lose it was health care because we didn't have an alternative. We just said, 'Well, let's not talk -- ' Somebody came out the other day, they asked a Republican, two weeks ago, health care and he turned off the mic, "Well, I'm going home now." You can't do that. You got to confront it. We'll be the party of health care. Republicans should not run away from health care."
[Canada] "Canada's sending us tremendous numbers of cars. They're practically un-taxed, and yet they don't take our agricultural product, in many cases, and in many cases they charge 297 per cent tariffs and it's very unfair. Canada's very, very tough. You know, we love Canada. We think of the beautiful song and the ice hockey games, O Canada, isn't it beautiful? But in the meantime, they knock the hell out of us on trade and they have been doing it for a long time. And they're very tough. And they're not at all nice about that situation. But we've made them nice. We've made them nice. And they're not happy about what happened. But our farmers are going to be able to sell now into Canada, which they were restricted from doing and -- and they're going to be able to sell into a lot of places."
[Caravan] "We stopped payment to Honduras, to Guatemala, and to El Salvador. We were paying them tremendous amounts of money, and we're not paying them anymore because they haven't done a thing for us. They set up these caravans. In many cases, they put their worst people in the caravan; they're not going to put their best in. They get rid of their problems."
[Sports and entertainment] "Wow, ratings for 'Morning Joe,' which were really bad in the first place, just 'tanked' with the release of the Mueller Report. Likewise, other shows on MSNBC and CNN have gone down by as much as 50%. Just shows, Fake News never wins!"
[Wall] "I also, by the way, want to thank our military, because our military has been very much involved, as you know. And they're putting up walls, in some cases temporary; in some cases, they were supposed to be temporary. They're so good that they're better than the permanent."
[Michael Cohen] .@RepMikeTurner "The only time that Michael Cohen told the truth is when he pled that he is guilty." Also when he said no collusion and I did not tell him to lie!"
[Syria] "We want to bring our people back home. It's time. Been in these wars. We were going to be in Syria for four months. We ended up five years."
[Race relations] "And African-American income has reached an all-time high."
[Inauguration] "And the Washington Post had to do -- and this particular writer -- had to do a -- I thought he was going to get fired. I mean, if that were a conservative, he would've been fired on the spot. He would've been humiliated for what he did. Because it was fake news. Nobody was in the arena. There were thousands outside but they hadn't opened the gates yet. They did the same thing at our big inauguration speech. You take a look at those crowds. And I watched one of the evening shows that are ridiculous, how horrible they are, how mean -- how horrible. And I watched it by mistake. And they showed -- they showed from the White House all the way down. They showed from the Cap -- they showed -- there were people. Nobody has ever seen it. The Capitol down to the Washington Monument -- people. But I saw pictures that there were no people. Those pictures were taken hours before. Right?"
[Socialism] "Democrat lawmakers are now embracing socialism. They want to replace individual rights with total government domination."
[Voter fraud] "Well, I condemn any election fraud...When I look at that catastrophe that took place in Florida where the Republican candidates kept getting less and less and less and less. And fortunately, Rick Scott and Ron ended up winning their election, but it was disgraceful what happened there."
[Muslims] "When I was at the wall the other day, Border Patrol said they have 150 people they caught that day who weren't from Mexico. I said, 'That's a strange statement.' They said, 'No, these are the people that weren't from Mexico.' And I was surprised. Three were from Pakistan. Four were from another Mideast -- two Mideast countries. And many of them were from other countries, including China -- countries all over the world. A hundred and fifty of the people, as he said, were not from Mexico. Now, they caught many, many more, but that's a 150 people coming from...really, countries that you wouldn't believe."
[MS-13] "Thank you, Sheriff. I appreciate it. And on Wednesday, you probably heard, a very young person with a great life ahead was stabbed viciously -- violently killed by an MS-13 gang member who entered our country recently through the southern border. He had a friend with him; they both came in together. Here, just for a short while. Kills somebody. That wouldn't be the first. We have them locked up in pretty tough conditions. It's a disgrace. Came through the southern border." And: "I haven't heard about this young person that was killed yesterday -- 16 years old. Brutally murdered. I haven't heard anything about it."
[Russia] "And when we kill ISIS, if we don't -- now, everyone says, 'Oh, then they'll come to our country.' Well that's possibly true, a very small percentage. But you know where else they're going? To Iran, who hates ISIS more than we do. They're going to Russia, who hates ISIS more than we do. So we're killing. And then I read, when we pull out, 'Oh, Russia is thrilled.' Russia is not happy. You know why they're not happy? Because they like it when we're killing ISIS, because we're killing them for them, and we're killing them for Assad, and we're killing ISIS also for Iran." And: "You know, we're helping by doing this. People say Russia and Iran. We're helping them. Everything we do over there helps them. They don't like seeing us leave because we're knocking out ISIS.
[Afghanistan] "We are talking to the Taliban. We're talking to a lot of different people. But here's the thing -- because you mentioned India: India is there. Russia is there. Russia used to be the Soviet Union. Afghanistan made it Russia, because they went bankrupt fighting in Afghanistan...They were right to be there. The problem is it was a tough fight. And literally, they went bankrupt. They went into being called Russia again, as opposed to the Soviet Union. You know, a lot these places you're reading about now are no longer a part of Russia because of Afghanistan."
[France] "Let me tell you, the Paris Accord is not working out too well for Paris. Take a look at what's happened over there...Because of the Paris Accord, that whole country is burning down, OK?"
[Hurricanes] "You know we're trying to save money, you know I'm cutting budgets and we've cut a lot of budgets...But you know we had a thing called hurricanes and fires that happened that had a huge impact on the numbers."
[Brett Kavanaugh] "...a lot because this was a man who Brett Kavanaugh was extraordinary and he was beaten up so badly and so unfairly by the Democrats. But we got through it. There were a lot of lies. There were a lot of lies. A number of people have already recanted their stories, never happened. You know that. Right?"
[Medicare] "The Democrats' plan to destroy health care also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants."
[Education] "You know, when I was growing up, we had vocational schools. Today you have community college. I'm trying to say, 'Well, a community college -- what do they teach? English and Latin and -- what are they teaching?' The old days, we had vocational schools...And we've gotten rid of vocational schools and we've replaced them with community colleges. We need vocational schools. It's great money. I mean, did you see a recent study came out? They earn more than a lot of the white-collar people that go out and they work behind a desk. They're doing better. And that's their ability, and that's what they want to do. So we have to bring back vocational schools. Use that name. I think it's a much better name."
[Pre-existing conditions] "And the pre-existing conditions, and all the other things, we're with 100 per cent."
[United Nations] Question: "So, I want to ask you: Yesterday, you were talking about your administration's accomplishments at the United Nations, and a lot of the leaders laughed. Why do you think they were laughing?" Trump: "Well, that's fake news." Question: "And what was that experience like for you?" Trump: "Yeah. It was fake news. And it was covered that way. Okay. So, I said that, since my election, our economy has become the hottest in the world. Tax reductions, regulations, confidence levels are the highest in 18 years -- really, soon to be historic..." And: "The unemployment numbers are among the best we've ever had ever. The numbers of new companies pouring into our country, which nobody thought was possible. And I said this. And I was in front of a large group of highly professional people, most of whom are from either other countries or the United Nations -- people that aren't big into clapping, applauding, smiling. And I heard a little rustle, as I said our country is now stronger than ever before. It's true. I mean, it is true."
[Sex assault allegations] "And: It's happened to me many times. I've had many false charges; I had a woman sitting in an airplane and I attacked her while people were coming onto the plane. And I have a number-one bestseller out? I mean it was total phony story. There are many of them."
[Trump businesses] "I don't think he -- you know some of these people there's no money left over by the time you take all of the expenses and they take salaries. Eric worked so hard for St. Jude and then in New York City they sued him and his foundation. He got a little foundation where the money goes all to St. Jude's. And they sued him, it was a disgrace."
[Google] "I'll tell you, there are some moments where we say, wow, that really is bad what they're doing. You know, we just put something up yesterday on Google where they were promoting Obama, Obama, Obama -- the day I got to office for the same event, which was the State of the Union speech, the day I got to office, they -- it was like, dead."
[2020 election] "There was a poll today -- they put it up -- that all of the candidates put together can't beat Trump in the election of 2020. I think they felt good about that; do you think they like that poll? I think so. I actually put it up on my Twitter because I thought they'd love to see it. We'll send it to a lot of people."
[Africa] "I have asked Secretary of State @SecPompeo to closely study the South Africa land and farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers. 'South African Government is now seizing land from white farmers.' @TuckerCarlson @FoxNews "
[Stormy Daniels controversy] "Inconceivable that the government would break into a lawyer's office (early in the morning) - almost unheard of. Even more inconceivable that a lawyer would tape a client - totally unheard of & perhaps illegal."
[Germany] "So, Angela (Merkel) was a superstar until she allowed millions of people to come into Germany. That really hurt her badly as you know. She was unbeatable in any election. She allowed millions of people to come in."
[Promises] "The Heritage Foundation came out with a report, and this was as of two months ago: we've already implemented 64 per cent of our top agenda items. And that's at a much faster pace than even Ronald Reagan. That's pretty good, right? And you don't hear this from the fake news."
[Space] "And thanks, also, to the interns here from NASA. We have -- how about raising your hands? Let me see NASA. Yeah. That's a good future because of President Trump. We opened that up again. We opened it up. NASA was heading in, I was going to say the wrong direction. It was heading in no direction. There was nothing happening, and now it's happening."
[Florida] "Fantastic crowd and great people yesterday in Key West, Florida. Thank you!"
[Stock market] "So I'm not saying there won't be a little pain. But the market's gone up 40 per cent, 42 per cent, so we might lose a little bit of it."
[Iraq] "We spent -- and I was against it from the beginning.  They try and say, 'Well, maybe not.' I was against it from the beginning.  And, by the way, we're knocking the hell out of ISIS."
[Speeches] "Thank you for all of the nice compliments and reviews on the State of the Union speech. 45.6 million people watched, the highest number in history."
[Air travel] "Since taking office I have been very strict on Commercial Aviation. Good news - it was just reported that there were Zero deaths in 2017, the best and safest year on record!"
[Congress] "The House of Representatives seeks contempt citations(?) against the JusticeDepartment and the FBI for withholding key documents and an FBI witness which could shed light on surveillance of associates of Donald Trump. Big stuff. Deep State. Give this information NOW! @FoxNews"
[Foreign trips] "Everywhere we went, our foreign hosts greeted the American delegation, myself included, with incredible warmth, hospitality, and most importantly respect. And this great respect showed very well our country is -- further evidence that America's renewed confidence and standing in the world has never been stronger than it is right now."
[NFL and anthems] "I think (NFL owners are) afraid of their players, you want to know the truth. And I think it's disgraceful. And they've got to be tough and they've got to be smart, because you look at the ratings. The ratings are going way down."
[Charlottesville] "Then I said, 'Racism is evil. Do they report that I said that racism is evil? You know why? Because they are very dishonest people."
[FEMA] "We are very strong on homeland security and we are very strong with respect to FEMA. FEMA is something that I've been very much involved in already. We've had some things during the last six months, including the highway in Atlanta, where I have to say the governor and all concerned did a fantastic job of rebuilding that stretch of highway that ended up burning so badly. We found the reasons why, and it wasn't for a good reason. But nevertheless, they did it in record time. I'm a builder and I understand they did it ahead of schedule and under budget, and that was very nice to see."
